we're using biological models to come up
with ways to improve our underwater
vehicles and that's useful because the
ones we have now aren't actually very
good at the kind of jobs we need them to
do for science and research most of the
underwater vehicles we have are either
torpedoes that go straight in a line and
they're not very good at doing any kind
of sensitive work or they're big clunky
remotely operated vehicles that are
really expensive whereas the stuff that
we're doing is inexpensive and
maneuverable and can easily do the job
that we need to get done and it looks
like a dinosaur I wanted to call it
messy because the dinosaur we're looking
at is the plesiosaur which has got to be
what the Loch Ness monster was kind of
based on it's the one with four flippers
and a long neck but yeah so we're taking
some previous research that was done by
a PhD student newly-minted dr. Luke
Muscat and he worked on showing that
flapping foils if you time them right
and you put them one in front of the
other in tandem that you get really high
efficiencies and thrusts out of that
back foil because it's operating in the
jet of the front coil so Luke did
measurements and you can get 60% more
thrust out of the back foils and 40%
higher efficiency so in games where
we're trying to tweak the efficiency of
a propeller up from 72 to 74 percent
going from 70% to 80% is just whew I've
been doing fluid mechanics for you know
longer than I care to to tell you and
I'm really interested in understanding
the behavior of interfaces and in
particular in situations where you've
got a high-speed flow going past an
interface and we want to understand what
happens if that flow is turbulent that
it interacts with the interface what
happens next have you modeled that how'd
you put down the computer in a way where
you can actually capture what happens in
real life so for example like mixing in
stirred tanks like we know we need power
to actually mix these fluids and the
amount of work you need to do or the
power or the torque actually is a
function of the shear stress or the
it's again the boundaries that are
playing the crucial role you have an
impeller you have water with the air in
the top you rotate the impeller you have
the after phase that deforms and then
when you increase the frequency of the
impeller it deforms more until you reach
the blade and then you have a multiple
of bubbles so it's process of mixing and
that's what I'm doing at this moment
these simulations are useful in many
different areas in some pharmaceuticals
and mineral processing because a lot of
industrial applications depend on the
size and the interactions of droplets
basically multi-phase flows this area
that we're working in which involves
this this issue of turbulent phase
flowing past an interface is central to
just about every processing equipment in
manufacturing so if you if you get that
bit of physics wrong then you're making
all kinds of wrong predictions in
designing lots of things very important
from an industrial perspective and we
think that that's one of the main
reasons why there is a lot of
inefficiency in design when we have a
body or an object that isn't streamlined
so generally we get a weight off the
back of the object which is unstable and
we want to see how we can change the
characteristics of that way if you have
sat downstream of the object if there
was a normal weight you'd see some
oscillation in the flow that it would be
unsteady but if you could reduce that if
you were downstream you wouldn't
necessarily in the extreme case know
that the object was there or you might
assume that the object was smaller
because the oscillations were less so
there's applications towards like
cloaking objects but equally if we can
enhance the unsteadiness in the weight
we can create energy harvesting devices
in our work we attach a flexible tail to
the rear side of the object
there's materials that you can make that
when they oscillate generate an electric
current so then you can extract that so
you're going from a steady flow into an
oscillating field and you start to
generate electricity and if you could
put an array of these at the bottom of
the ocean where you've got relatively
steady flow you could extract energy out
there which is also good for renewable
energy sources
[Music]